
# **Lab: Text Processing**
Problems for exercises and homework for the ["Programming Fundamentals" course @ SoftUni](https://softuni.bg/courses/programming-fundamentals)

You can check your solutions in [Judge.](https://judge.softuni.bg/Contests/1669/Text-Processing-Lab)
## **Reverse Strings**
You will be given series of strings until you receive an **"end"** command. Write a program that reverses strings and printseach pair on separate line in format **"{word} = {reversed word}"**.
### **Examples**

|**Input**|**Output**|
| :-: | :-: |
|<p>helLo</p><p>Softuni</p><p>bottle</p><p>end</p>|<p>helLo = oLleh</p><p>Softuni = inutfoS</p><p>bottle = elttob</p><p></p>|
|<p>Dog</p><p>caT</p><p>chAir</p><p>end</p>|<p>Dog = goD</p><p>caT = Tac</p><p>chAir = riAhc</p>|
### **Solution**
Use while loop and read strings until you receive **"end"**.

Reverse the string with for loop. Start from the last index and append each symbol to the new string.

Print the reversed string in the specified format.


## **Repeat strings**
### Write a program that reads an array of strings. Each string is repeated **n** times, where **n** is the length of the string. Print the concatenated string.
### **Examples**

|**Input**|**Output**|
| :-: | :-: |
|hi abc add|hihiabcabcabcaddaddadd|
|work|workworkworkwork|
|ball|ballballballball|
### **Solution**
Read a **string array**.

Initialize **StringBuilder**.

Iterate through elements in the array. Find the length of the word at each iteration and append it to the **StringBuilder**.

Print the **StringBuilder**.
## **Substring**
On the first line you will receive a string. On the second line you will receive a second string. Write a program that removes all of the occurrences of the first string in the second until there is no match. At the end print the remaining string.
### **Examples**

|**Input**|**Output**|**Comment**|
| :-: | :-: | :-: |
|<p>ice</p><p>kicegiciceeb</p>|kgb|<p>We remove ice once and we get "kgiciceeb"</p><p>We match "ice" one more time and we get "kgiceb"</p><p>There is one more match. The finam result is "kgb"</p>|
### **Hints**
- Read the input.
- Find the first index where the key appears.
  - Use the built-in method **indexOf()** 
- Remove the match.
  - Use the built-in method **replace(String oldValue, String newValue)**
- Repeat it until the text doesn't contain the key anymore.
  ## **Text Filter**
Write a program that takes a **text** and a **string of banned words**. All words included in the ban list should be replaced with **asterisks** "**\***", equal to the word's length. The entries in the ban list will be separated by a **comma** and **space** "**,** ".

The ban list should be entered on the first input line and the text on the second input line. 
### **Examples**

|**Input**|**Output**|
| :-: | :-: |
|<p>Linux, Windows</p><p>It is not **Linux**, it is GNU/**Linux**. **Linux** is merely the kernel, while GNU adds the functionality. Therefore we owe it to them by calling the OS GNU/**Linux**! Sincerely, a **Windows** client</p>|It is not \*\*\*\*\*, it is GNU/\*\*\*\*\*. \*\*\*\*\* is merely the kernel, while GNU adds the functionality. Therefore we owe it to them by calling the OS GNU/\*\*\*\*\*! Sincerely, a \*\*\*\*\*\*\* client|
### **Hints**
- Read the input.
- Replace all ban words in the text with asterisk (\*).
  - Use the built-in method **replace(banWord, replacement)**.
  ## **Digits, Letters and Other**
Write a program that receives a single string and on the first line prints all the digits, on the second – all the letters, and on the third – all the other characters. There will always be at least one digit, one letter and one other characters.
### **Examples**

|**Input**|**Output**|
| :-: | :-: |
|Agd#53Dfg^&4F53|<p>53453</p><p>AgdDfgF</p><p>#^&</p>|
### **Hints**
- Read the input.
- Use loop to iterate through all characters in the text. If the char is digit print it, otherwise ignore it.
  - Use **Character.isDigit(char symbol)**
- Do the same for the letters and other chars
  - Find something like **isDigit** method for the letters.

